- Everyone out there in the live stream,
thank you so much for being here.
Hey Brian, hey Brandon.
- Hey.
- Hello.
- You guys ready to do a podcast today?
- Every day.
It's all podcasting all the time.
Awesome, so let's kick this off.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes,
where we deliver Python news and headlines
directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 244, recorded July 30th, 2021.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
- And I'm Brian Okken.
And I'm Brandon Brainer.
- Hey, Brandon, welcome to the podcast.
Thanks for being here.
- Yeah, thank you for having me.
- Yeah, it's really good to have you here.
You're one of the first volunteers, I'll put it as,
when I said, "Hey, we're looking for some folks
"to come be with Brian and me on the show,"
and throw your name in the hat, and here you are.
Happy to have you here.
- It's very exciting, very, very exciting.
- Yeah, absolutely.
So before we jump into the topics,
just tell us a quick bit about yourself.
- Yeah, so I've been in software development for 10 years,
half of it in management,
half of it as a individual contributor,
about seven years of it with Python.
You know, I was planning when I first started programming,
I lived in a Raspberry Pi,
I thought Python is so confusing
with not having brackets and all these spaces
and I don't understand it.
And now I can't go back, it's so much easier.
- Yeah, yeah, I had a similar experience
coming from C# and C++ and stuff with all the symbols.
And I thought, in my mind, I thought,
those are necessary for programming.
Like you have to have the semicolons,
you have to have the curly braces and the extra parentheses
'cause how else will the parser and everything,
like that's how you express stuff in programming.
And then when I got into Python,
I felt a little bit weird with the missing.
But then when I went back, I felt even weirder,
like, why are all these symbols here?
I just learned that they're not necessary.
Why have I been doing this the last 10 years of my life?
What is wrong with me?
- Exactly.
- It was a real interesting experience.
Yeah, speaking of interesting, Brian,
all the stuff on pip, quite interesting.
- Yeah, so I don't know, we're doing this on Friday
because I wasn't here on Wednesday, I was in Florida.
And so--
- Because you're a jet setter, basically, you just--
- Yeah, no--
- You never know what's gonna happen.
- I haven't traveled in like two years.
For business--
Yeah, was it weird?
No, it was like wearing a mask all the way there.
I was kind of got used to no masks here in Oregon, but then now I guess they're changing
a lot again.
We're bringing them back.
But you know, what's old is new again.
But one of the things I tried to do is I tried to work on the plane.
And in Python, of course, so the problem with snakes on a plane is there's no internet.
So I had this issue.
I had, and I've already put it up on the screen, the solution.
But the, so my issue was I had a bunch of, I had a project I wanted to work on.
It's got talks set up.
And when you run talks, talks creates for environment in virtual environments,
and then fills those up with all your dependencies and your code using pip.
Pip goes out to PyPI to get that stuff.
I mean, you can cache it and that does help.
and you do that locally on your machine,
but it still looks out at the Internet.
And this won't work on a plane.
So I reached out to the Twitterverse,
and I thought I found a solution,
but I'm not even going to say the wrong solution.
Paul Gansel pointed me in the direction of
environmental variables in pip.
You can just set find links to a local directory
and then set with pip find links and then pip noindex
so that the pip doesn't even look out there, it looks at a local directory.
So what I did is I'm going to, I guess we'll look at...
I was surprised...
Wait, go back, I got a quick question before we go on.
Okay.
So it'll look in that local directory for the packages, the wheels and whatnot.
How do you get them there in the first place?
Okay, so I got some pre-work that I did.
So I'm like, okay, how do I get those?
And normally when I want to put something in a local directory or something,
I'll just use a pip download.
You can do that. But that's
a lot of work to try to figure out what you did.
What I did is I just,
before I got on the plane,
I'm using the airport Internet.
Everybody can harass me later
about how that's not secure. It's fine.
But I ran talks.
You do it at home then if you want.
Run talks with an Internet connection.
What it's going to do is you're going to have
a whole bunch of your environments within talks,
you're going to have all Python 7,
Python 8, whatever you got in there,
or not 8, 3.8, 3.7, 3.10, whatever.
>> You're looking at a feature.
>> Just go through all of them.
Just do a search and grab all of the,
what do we got, the site packages directories.
Grab everything out of all of those and copy
them to a local wheels directory or something.
Something outside of your work environment.
I just stuck it at the top level,
like users or something, I stuck it up there.
And then you can, then that's everything,
because you know you ran it.
And then go ahead and set up these environmental variables.
I actually just stuck the environmental variables
in my, just in a little script to set them,
while I'm developing.
- Yeah, you know what I learned that was pretty interesting?
That the activate script for a virtual environment,
you can put environment variables in there.
So you could have like a offline virtual environment and an online virtual environment and those could toggle different environment
Just which when you activate will just make this happen. That'd be awesome. Yeah. Yeah, so this and that's one of those like,
It's all virtual environments all the way down
um it and the environments are the virtual these environmental variables have to be set in the environment that you're
Running it in so they can be set in the virtual environment
that you were using to run talks,
even though talks will generate others.
It works right.
I don't know how it works, but it works.
Anyway, this super helped me out.
Then grab all those,
throw them in there, and then use the find links and
noindex and it'll just work great.
The reason why I think I didn't find it at first is that
the note within the pip documentation just says,
everything that's a flag within pip
is also an environmental variable.
It just, so if you searched for it, you probably won't find it.
It just has this comment that says,
all command line options can be set as environmental variables
using all uppercase
and then underscores instead of dashes.
That's a cool tip.
Yeah, very.
Yeah, Brenda, what do you think?
Yeah, at first I was confused a little bit about why you wouldn't just pip install before
you got on the plane, but I've never actually used TOX to do any testing.
So it sounds like that installs in a different directory.
So when you do your TOX runs that it needs to reinstall them.
It creates new virtual environment.
You can tell it, you can run it ahead of time and you can tell it to not install those,
but I was messing with my TOX, my environments.
So I really wanted to make sure I could clean them out.
So you can, I think this is, I mean, yeah,
there's probably other cool solutions,
but this is what I used.
It creates all the virtual environments.
So each different, like three, seven, three, eight,
three, nine, three, 10,
they'll all be different virtual environments
that it runs your tests in.
>>So it's one of those things that we depend so much
on the internet that you do our job
that when you don't have it, it's like, what do I do?
So that's interesting.
- Yeah, and that's like, you know, 20 hours of work
I would have lost if I...
(laughing)
Anyway.
- Yeah, this is very cool.
Nice tip, especially in the environment variables
just for pip, like you can change the verbosity
or the mirrors or all sorts of stuff, right?
- Yeah.
- All right, so this time I have an extra, extra,
how many extras, let's see, I have eight extras.
Extra, extra, six times extra here all about it.
So I'll be kind of quick, but they're all kind of interesting.
So I just want to give a quick shout out to vbrownbag.
I did a talk over there on Pydantic,
so a 45-minute presentation on Pydantic
and how you can do all sorts of cool stuff with that.
We've already talked about why Pydantic is excellent.
So very, very neat.
People can check that out.
And I also want to give a shout out to an episode that I did,
on Talk Python, that I think is going
to be really useful for people.
It's about building little automation tools.
Like instead of trying to build big apps,
like maybe a little app with rumps that runs up in your menu
or a little app that you can do a bunch of stuff
and it'll generate like a query for some other platform.
That's not like SQL, but you know,
think SQL like type of things and so on.
So I had a bunch of cool guests.
I had Rusty Gregory, Kim Benwick, KJ Miller,
and actually Rivers Cuomo from Weezer on the show.
He's doing amazing stuff.
So people should check that out
if that sounds interesting and inspiring.
- That sounds so cool, I can't wait to watch this.
- Yeah, this is gonna be one of my favorite
Talk by Line episodes in the near term, I'm pretty sure.
Okay, enough of my stuff,
on to the six other things that we haven't done.
Remember we had Sherry Eskenes on the show a while back?
- Yes. - That was really fun.
She talked about a bunch of great things,
but she also did a day in the code Python,
like storybook for kids.
So her storybook for kids,
which I know you and I both got a copy, right Brian?
- Yeah, it's actually pretty cool.
Yeah, I like it.
- Yeah, it's cool.
So think like a big large picture book that tells a story,
but about programming for kids rather than,
I don't know, like a day in the park or whatever.
So that book's actually out.
I just wanna, that'll be a link in the show notes.
If you heard that episode, you wanna check it out,
you could actually get the book now.
So we talked about GitHub Copilot
and some other things like that.
I wanna give a shout out to another tool
that's kind of like this, but way more tamed down.
And it plugs into all sorts of different IDEs
called tab nine.
We talked about tab nine.
I don't think I have either.
But it's actually really well developed.
It's got a ton of different platforms.
Like for example, if you go over here and check it out,
it's like, well, what do you want?
VS Code, you want PyCharm, you want WebStorm,
you want Atom, you want Emacs, you want Ruby mind, you want Jupyter.
- Oh, Vim, straight Vim. - Yeah, straight Vim.
Yeah.
And so this is a tool
that you plug into your editor.
Let me pull up Python, that's offensive to have JavaScript, excuse me.
So you can come down here and it will
help basically
look at your code,
look at the keyword arguments, and instead of just giving you autocomplete for the symbols,
like the functions and fields and stuff,
it tries to kind of bring it together.
It's not GitHub Copilot in the sense that it's trying to pull other
people's code and inject lord.
It's not like stack overflow copy and paste with a tab type of thing.
It's looking at what's on your screen and trying to pull it together
to like complete a little bit more.
So if you have like a username equals
quote Brian, and then you call a function that takes a username,
it'll suggest you pass in like that variable value and so on.
What do you think?
Actually, I definitely want to try this.
I think this having a smarter code complete that sounds just like about the right level that I want to try first.
So yeah, Brandon, yeah, I actually had this and GitHub code pilot on at the same time.
Oh my gosh, what happened?
The disaster.
But yeah, I like this because as much as I like VS Code, I'm a JetBrains fan.
and the fact that you can't use it in,
you know, PyCharm or anything else like that
is very disappointing, so.
- Yeah, I agree with that, yeah.
- Well, I think I wanna get like five AI
coding systems together and they can just
mob program by themselves.
(laughing)
- Exactly.
When I look at this stuff, one of the first things I think,
okay, it's using AI, it's taking,
it's like I said, it's taking the stuff out of my code
and then applying the AI to that.
Does that mean my code is being passed to somewhere
that I don't want my code to be?
And so somewhere, yeah, here you go.
It says your code is yours and yours alone.
It runs locally without sending any source code anywhere.
You can even work on a plane, Brian.
So anyway, I ran across this.
I was talking to the folks from there
and I thought this is pretty cool.
I'll give a quick shout out to that
'cause it's the AI coding assistants
are all the rage right now.
- Is this a paid thing or a free thing?
- Yeah, it costs money, but there is a free version.
So you get like what they call basic completion.
- That's a bad suggestion for free.
- Yeah, exactly.
Like it'll put like every 10th is a bug,
but the other nine are really good.
No, I'm just joking about that.
I don't know.
But yeah, there's a free one and then you can pay for more.
Brandon, did you do the paid one?
Do you know the difference?
- I just used the free one.
I assumed that there's probably, like I said,
better models and I think there's like a limit
to the amount you can do with the free one.
So it just stops working,
you actually have to do the work yourself.
- Yeah.
- To be fair, it doesn't look expensive.
- No, no, it's reasonably priced.
- Yeah, yeah.
It's 12 bucks a month for the paid version.
I always feel like when people are like,
oh, well, I'm not gonna pay $10 for this thing.
It's like, this is your job all day.
How much do you actually make from this job?
Like if this could save you an hour, surely.
Anyway, it's a different discussion.
Speaking of discussions,
following up on one of our episodes with Simon Willison,
who talked about Apple Photos and SQLite
and using DogSheep and Dataset to analyze it.
Rhett Turnbull pointed out a project that he created
that will, it says,
the OSX Photos Python package exposes all of your data
to your Python apps,
and the next release will provide the OCR stuff
out of Apple's Vision Framework.
So people have been tracking that.
There's some really exciting stuff coming to the Apple Photo,
you know, iOS, et cetera,
where if you take a picture of something,
then it'll automatically do OCR
and you can actually select and copy the text
out of say a sign in a picture and paste that somewhere.
So that'll be stored in the database.
And apparently this thing will give you access to that text.
- Oh, that'd be cool.
Can I get that in my car
so that I can just have somebody else reading signs for me?
- Exactly. - That'd be sweet.
- Someday, perhaps.
All right, so Rhett, thank you for that.
Ooh, okay, last three things.
Really quickly, I released three packages to PyPI last week.
Two of them are related.
They're around taking HTML and templates,
either Jinja or Chameleon,
two in one package for each language,
and trying to reuse them in really clean, simple ways.
So if you've got some fragment,
like an example I have on the site is a video app,
and it's got like the thumbnail of a YouTube video,
then the title of the author, and then the number of views.
And if you want to show that all over the place,
you could either copy that code and replicate it,
or with this inside your template,
you just say, "Render partial,"
and you point at some HTML fragment bit,
and it'll apply your model to that sub thing.
It allows you to basically create functions
that return HTML inside of your templates.
- Yeah, so it's super, super simple.
So like for the videos,
you have like literally this little render partial,
you know, quote shared video square
and you pass the video over.
Really, really nice.
So there's a Jinja partials for flask people
and there's a chameleon partials
that does exactly the same thing for pyramid.
And then last thing,
adding the chameleon template language to FastAPI
so you can build proper web apps.
I published that, it's been around for a little while,
but I finally published it to PyPI.
So you just put a little decorator onto a FastAPI function
and it becomes a HTML endpoint rather than a API endpoint.
- Have you just, have you been using Chameleon longer?
Is that why you're more comfortable with it?
- I, no, I probably have been doing more Chameleon
than Jinja, but I do a lot.
But the thing that I really, really like about Chameleon,
let's see if I can find an example.
Okay, this'll probably be good enough.
So what I really like about Chameleon
is that it is valid HTML as it is.
Whereas with Jinja and the Django framework
and a bunch of other frameworks,
Mako and you go into other areas like Razor and ASP.NET,
all of these are nice,
but they all have HTML, HTML blocks of code,
blocks of code, HTML block of code, HTML, right?
This is all driven through attributes, it's like view.
So like here, if I want something that's a loop,
I can just say, "Talcolon repeat" as an attribute.
Or if I want, yeah, things like that, right?
Or you do condition, you say, "Talcolon conditional,"
and you put it in there.
So this is actually 100% still valid HTML,
with just attributes that don't make sense.
So to me, it just feels cleaner.
That's why I like it better.
- Yeah, okay.
- Yeah.
Ooh, I kind of tore through all those,
so without giving you a lot of chance to talk about them.
But anyway, that's my extra, extra A time.
- Yeah, I like it.
- Thanks.
Cool.
All right, Brandon, you're up next.
- Yeah, so this is something I came across on Twitter
and I signed up to do it.
So it's Kaggle's 30 days of machine learning.
Basically what it is,
I guess if you don't know what Kaggle is,
it's a place for data scientists
to find and publish data sets.
They have online Jupyter notebooks
that allow you access to free GPUs and things like that
to run your machine learning models on.
You can collaborate with other data scientists
and things like that.
And machine learning is one of those things
that I've always kind of wanted to get into,
but I've always been a little scared
and not sure the 100% of resources to go to.
So I saw this 30 days of machine learning.
And what's nice is they give you an introduction
into Python and the things you need to learn from Python
to know how to do machine learning.
They show you how to build models
in their Jupyter notebooks.
And yeah, so when you go through that,
you learn some basic
and intermediate machine learning concepts.
you get some certificates.
So if you want to post those,
like you know, with your resume or something like that,
you can say, hey, I did some learning with Kaggle.
And the cool-
- I haven't done any of this,
but I suspect that if you ranked pretty highly on Kaggle
and then you put that on your LinkedIn profile,
trying to get a job, that, I mean, that speaks pretty well.
- Yeah, I would think so.
And I think the cool thing is like at the end of it,
there's a competition that they have with,
it's like teams up to three,
and it's like only people that ran through the course.
So you're not competing against people
been doing machine learning for years.
And kind of give you a little bit of that taste
into what machine learning competitions are like.
So I think it will be interesting, it'll be fun.
- Are you going to do it?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, nice.
What I think is valuable here is the constraints, right?
You know, you have, here's your data
that you're going to be working from.
Here's the type of problem you're solving.
And so often when you're a beginner,
whether it's machine learning or web development
or whatever, it's really hard to know
what is the right sized problem to attack?
- Yeah. - It's so easy to go,
well, that's too small, that's not interesting.
Or, oh, wait, all of a sudden I tried to build Instagram
and I got stuck or whatever, you know?
- Yeah, and I think it's nice to know
if they give you the data, like, yeah,
I think a lot of times the biggest part
in machine learning and data science is cleaning the data
and making sure you have the right data
and the right attributes to look at.
Hopefully they walk you through how to,
they should walk you through how to do that
and kind of give you a taste of how to do that.
So, it'll be a good learning experience.
- I suspect this is free, is that true?
- Yeah, yeah, that's true, it's free, yep.
All you need is a Kaggle account.
- Yeah, and it starts August 2nd,
which is like four days away.
So yeah, don't hesitate, get in there
if you're gonna be part of this.
- This sounds neat.
And actually there's this,
but even if somebody doesn't wanna do this,
Kaggle has a lot of learning opportunities
for people that wanna sort of learn the tools.
It's an interesting resource for learning how to do this.
Yeah, absolutely. Cool. Well, that's a great pick.
Brian, you're next, right?
All right. Yeah. So been testing a lot.
More testing. So I, one of the things I had a project that was,
that was set up to use talks, but I also early on when GitHub
actions came about, I put it up on GitHub actions too. But I was,
I was trying to, you know, trying to understand the workflow
a little bit more. At first, there were a lot of resources.
And then I came across this recently,
just this weekend, this week, last week,
building and testing Python. It's part of the GitHub Actions guides.
And it's actually pretty great. And it goes through
a whole bunch of stuff. I mean, it's around
a set of docs that talks about, you know, Python, Ruby, Java,
a whole bunch of other things. But within the Python space,
It really is a full setup of how to run this yourself.
The reason why I brought this up is I wanted to, hopefully people are using talks, I love talks.
One of the reasons why I like it is because you can, it's kind of like a CI system, but locally you can
sort of run through making sure your installs work, your builds work,
and all your extra tools that you've got hooked up.
One of the problems is you just got your Python,
whatever, version 393, whatever, installed,
and you run your test, it runs on that.
But you want to exhaustively go,
I want to test on all the versions that I in theory support every time.
>> Yeah, or you might have an error in your pyproject.toml file or your setup.py,
and you're not seeing that because you're not completely,
you're not rebuilding it.
But Tox will do that.
But so will CI systems,
but it's nice to have it set up both.
And the directions here are how to,
it starts with directions on how to run,
pytest and to install dependencies and build
and lint and run pytest on your project.
But if you already have talks set up,
this is sort of a duplicate effort.
But if you, I think you wanna jump down
to the talk section of this document,
because it shows you just how to run talks directly.
And it's a smaller setup.
And essentially what GitHub Actions is doing
is setting up a Python environment
and then installing talks
and running your talks environments.
And so you're having that same code
from your talks.ini file running within GitHub Actions.
- I like it because it's gonna try to do the same thing
locally as it will in CI.
- Yeah, the one change I wanna mention to flag out,
and we'll have this in the show notes,
as I've modified this example, because hopefully,
it didn't make sense to me at first.
The example they show is on push.
So when you push to a branch, it'll run these actions.
But you also want to set up on pull requests.
So just add pull_request right next to push.
And then so when people do pull requests to your project,
it'll run your talks also.
And then also if you want to try to run 3.10, and hopefully you are right now,
because 3.10 is just around the corner,
add 3.10-dev into the Python list.
Oh, -dev, interesting. That'll run the RC, huh?
Yeah. Well, I don't know if it's the RC, I think you can do RCs also,
but dev is, I think, close enough, and you don't have to muck with it all the time.
Is that like the latest build, 3.10?
I think so. I think it's just the latest 3.10 build.
And then at the bottom, there's like this thing that talks e-pi and that -e usually means run
Run the environment run a specific one, but I didn't set up a I don't set up to one that just says pi
I usually say pi 3 7 to pi 3 8
But I got some help on
Also on Twitter to understand this what that does is it just will pick
the one that's valid and I tried it out and it works if you do this code it'll run the correct one so
Very nice very nice
In the live stream we have Felix. Hey Felix says I love talks to using it for my strong typing package
And it's awesome and welcome Felix. Yeah, we covered your strong typing package a few weeks ago. That's really good
Yeah, oh
And then only says the machine machine language, of course sounds good. So thank you
- Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
All right.
Well, Brian, you spoke about the stuff on the plane
and I've got an alternative solution for you.
- Okay.
- This is really interesting.
This one comes from Patrick Park, this recommendation
and it's called Python-Vendorize.
So, vendoring a dependency in Python means
instead of linking to the package you get from pip,
you just go, I'm gonna find that code
and just jam it into my project and just copy it over, right?
Which it's a bit of a hassle
because then you've got to like keep syncing it and stuff,
but for small things like, you know, six, unsync,
you know, like things that are one file
or they're just pure Python
and they don't have many dependencies.
It might just make sense if there were an easy way
to just make that like a sub directory sub module
of your package, then when somebody runs your code,
they don't have to pip install anything.
no virtual environments, nothing, right?
And so with this Python vendorize,
that's what you can do for pure Python packages.
So the idea is if you've got some code
that has lightweight dependencies,
I don't know if I'd do this with something like Flask
that depends on Vixoic, that depends on who knows what,
right click and so on, like you don't,
I wouldn't necessarily go too deep,
but for things that are smallish,
what you can do is you can set up a vendorize.toml file,
and then in here just list the packages.
And you give it a location.
You say I wanted it to go from my project
into underscore vendor in this example,
but that could be whatever.
And then you just run vendorize, python-vendorize,
in the working directory where that toml file is.
And what it'll do is it'll actually copy
the package details over for that project.
And then in your code, you just say from underscore vendor,
import package name, six requests, whatever.
- Interesting.
- That's interesting, right?
- Yeah.
- Yeah, so then you've got a program or a package really
that has effectively zero dependencies,
even though you're still using
some of these third party libraries.
- Do you know if it'll re-download,
if you run this again, will it re-download them or?
- I would, I don't know for sure.
I looked, I didn't see anything in the documentation one way or the other.
It is honestly a little sparse on documentation.
This is an interesting idea.
And actually, and it often like this does happen whether people like it or not.
Um, and it's a completely legitimate according to a lot of the, I mean, the,
the, licensing, right.
Uh, and for, but for commercial projects, this is very common, that
I don't want to go out and pull things from pip all the time.
I want to just have things local so that they're just built locally.
>> Right. It might not be for just to avoid the pip install.
It might be that you want extreme control over what's shipped and you don't want
something that might happen to that package
coming down through pip and breaking your code.
Even if you pin it, you might want to just have more control over it.
>> Right. Or a decision that somebody takes
the project in a completely different direction that you don't want.
It's like, this is a very hard fork sometimes.
>> Yeah, I suspect re-running Python-Vendorize will re-download it,
but I don't know for sure. Brandon, go ahead.
>> Can you pin versions in this?
>> Good question.
>> The packages in the vendorize.toml,
it doesn't say that you can do versions,
but I would be guessing,
just guessing here, I'm thinking that you can probably pin them.
Yeah, I'm just guessing that it passes whatever that string is over to pip and yeah
Yeah, so yeah, that's what I was thinking as well. So probably you can
Love to try it out. Somebody can tell us for wrong Felix is right there with you
Do you know wings specify version? I don't know. Like I said, it doesn't say in the docs
About it. But yeah, it's it's a small project, but I think it's an interesting idea and it could be
You know if you just have these real simple dependencies and you're like, ah, geez
We're gonna have to create environments and have all these complicated instructions because of you know a few little files like just
Here's a nice way to do that. Obviously you can do it yourself, right? But here's a more repeatable type of way
Cool alright Brandon take us out. What's your last one?
So there's a newer project out there called super base. I feel really weird saying the name super base
You gotta get you got to say with an attitude
When you're doing a
Open source firebase alternative
So if you ever like that a lot of JavaScript been friends with JavaScript developers a lot of people use firebase because it provides authentication
I believe they're like more of a no sequel database
database real time updates.
So if you subscribe to database changes,
your app will change based on if it suddenly changes.
So what Superbase is doing is something kind of similar,
but they are running basically a Postgres database for you.
And then they've got different open source projects
that are wrapping it.
So they have the authentication part,
which they had to have a wrap around the GoTru
library from Netlify for handling authentication.
So if you want to have authentication for your app,
you can easily do first name or email password,
just email that sends like an authentication link
to the email.
They have an extensive list of OAuth 2 providers.
So if you want to add OAuth 2,
they handle all that for you.
- Yeah, so the main idea of this database
is kind of like,
I want to have a front end JavaScript framework,
maybe hosted on the backend by Python,
but then I just wanted to have like a database access
over an API, just like the entire CRUD story, right?
And all of a sudden you run into all these challenges
of offline, of authentication and stuff.
And that's what this is mostly focused on, right?
- Yeah, so they have a package that gets,
you can use it called Postgres.
I can't say it.
It's a wraparound Postgres that basically gives you
an API to your Postgres database that you don't have to write.
And they implement that in a way that, you know,
you can just, like you said, make those HTTP calls
to write, read, to basically do your CRUD operations
to your database.
And what's nice is whenever you update your database,
they automatically generate the API documentation for you.
So you're not writing any controllers, any services,
or anything to do that.
It's just provided by them.
And like you said, it looks like definitely a JavaScript
thing, but they're actually just released a Python
library for you to show up right now.
Super based up dash pie.
Yeah, so so your snake is.
Anyways, so it's currently, I believe, in alpha,
so I wouldn't suggest using it in like, you know, enterprise application.
But it's definitely something to try, you know, play around with
if you want to support or do authentication access to a Postgres database.
It was nice, you know, they give you a Postgres database,
but you don't actually have to access it through their terminal
where their UI you can connect to it through,
whatever you use for your database.
And yeah, going along the no internet development,
they also have a super based local
that you can run locally.
So you don't need internet to do your development.
So if you lose power, you wanna get on a plane or something,
you can still do your work.
So.
- Yeah, this is super cool.
And one of the things that's interesting here
is the subscribing to the real time changes, right?
That's pretty unique.
especially over a remote API.
So, you know, if you've got some front end
and you want everyone to see those changes,
possibly, I guess you could even do this
in like a Qt or a WX Python app,
or gosh, even a terminal app,
but you might even wanna just say,
I've got a FastAPI app and I'm gonna fire up
a web socket there, so all the clients
just get the changes streamed down.
So, you know, the changes stream to you,
and then they kind of like multiplex on out
to all the people watching.
That'd be neat.
- Yeah, I was thinking something like that.
I'm curious if you set up like an AWS Lambda
so where someone changes
and you need to set up a notification email
or something to get hooked up to that
and it would just kick that off for you.
- Oh yeah.
- So things like that.
- Yeah, that's a good find.
I had not heard about Superbase, but it does look super.
Yeah, it looks really useful actually.
Do you know what the story is?
So when I'm looking at over here, they talk about,
okay, so here's how you specify your API endpoint
at app.supabase.io, is there,
and it's in this open source thing,
but there's probably some database as a service
or something equivalent that I maybe sign up for,
or I pay for, do you know what the story is around that?
Yeah, I don't know.
I mean, surely they are not running the database
for the world for free.
They gotta charge at least bandwidth.
- Yeah, so that's the interesting thing.
So there's a, their pricing model is a little confusing.
I feel like they've gotten some funding.
And I don't know how they're going to plan
to make money with me,
'cause the pricing that they have is $25 a project a month.
And that gives you unlimited API calls,
real-time functionality, eight gigabytes of database space.
I mean, I don't know who they're using
for their database provider.
I can't imagine they have a data center somewhere
where they're running it, but--
- Yeah, it's probably on top of some cloud somewhere.
- Yeah.
- I have a zero dollars per month version.
- That's nice to get your project up and going, so.
- Yeah, very nice.
That's an excellent one.
All right, well, I think that's it for our six items.
Brian, you got anything else you wanna throw extra,
you wanna throw out there for everyone?
- Yeah, I mean, we had Simon Wilson on recently
and he just released a post
about the baked data architecture pattern
And that's, if you know what he's up to,
this isn't surprising, but it's a nice write up.
Baked data is bundling a read only copy of your data
alongside the code for your application
as part of the same deployment.
And it's just an interesting and neat write up
and it's good to go have a read.
- Yeah, it says, most dynamic sites keep their code
and data separate.
Code runs on the server and it's stored in like Postgres
or Mongo.
the data is deployed as part of the application bundle.
Interesting.
Yeah.
And then also on the live stream,
Tim Pogue is doing real time research for us.
Thank you.
It looks like you were able to do a pin similar to
as you would with pip,
when with the Python vendorize.
So yeah, awesome.
Thanks.
Appreciate that.
Brandon, anything else you want to throw out for people
while we're here?
- No, not really.
I guess, and maybe do a little bit of self-promotion
if I could.
I'm currently working on a side project called Released.
It's at released.sh.
Basically, what it is, it's working on a tool
to automate release notes for companies.
I've noticed a lot of places, when they have releases,
they need to go out and curate all these release notes
and have somebody manually do this work that takes
hours upon hours every release.
So I'm going to try to automate that
and make it easier for people.
- Good.
- That looks like a great project and nice web design.
Well done.
- Thank you.
Tailwind CSS, if you haven't tried it, give it a shot.
- I'm hearing good things about Tailwind.
I'm hearing so many good things.
Must learn.
All right, speaking of must learn,
one must be cautious when learning, it turns out,
because if we study the circle of AI life,
there's this great cartoon here on devhumor.com.
So there's the circle of AI life,
and it's got these little pictures
of how humanity progresses.
So there's some two humans sitting here
analyzing a neural network.
It says human researches AI,
and then they're like celebrating near a quantum computer.
Humanity perfects AI.
Then AI perfects itself with lots of lightning.
AI enslaves humanity.
There's pyramids.
A solar flare disables the AI,
and then there's humans worshiping a sun god.
Humanity worships the sun god.
(laughing)
And we start over.
So there's our joke for the week.
- It's good, thanks.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's a warning.
It's humorous and ominous all at the same time.
- The singularity is coming.
(laughing)
Anyway, thanks Brandon for coming on the show.
It was fun.
- Yes, thanks for having me.
- Yeah, it was great to have you here, Brandon, Brian.
Good to chat with you all
and thank you everyone for listening.
Bye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]